Pages and views frequently share visual and programmatic elements. This article demonstrates how to:Use common layouts.Share directives.Run common code before rendering pages or views.This document discusses layouts for the two different approaches to ASP.NET Core MVC: Razor Pages and controllers with views. For this topic, the differences are minimal:Razor Pages are in the Pages folder.Controllers with views uses a Views folder for views.What is a LayoutMost web apps have a common layout that provides the user with a consistent experience as they navigate from page to page. The layout typically includes common user interface elements such as the app header, navigation or menu elements, and footer.Common HTML structures such as scripts and stylesheets are also frequently used by many pages within an app. All of these shared elements may be defined in a layout file, which can then be referenced by any view used within the app. Layouts reduce duplicate code in views.By convention, the default layout for an ASP.NET Core app is named _Layout.cshtml. The layout files for new ASP.NET Core projects created with the templates are:Razor Pages: Pages/Shared/_Layout.cshtmlThe layout defines a top level template for views in the app. Apps don't require a layout. Apps can define more than one layout, with different views specifying different layouts.SectionsA layout can optionally reference one or more sections, by calling RenderSection. Sections provide a way to organize where certain page elements should be placed. Each call to RenderSection can specify whether that section is required or optionalA partial view is a Razor markup file (.cshtml) that renders HTML output within another markup file's rendered output.The term partial view is used when developing either an MVC app, where markup files are called views, or a Razor Pages app, where markup files are called pages. This topic generically refers to MVC views and Razor Pages pages as markup files. When to use partial viewsPartial views are an effective way to:Break up large markup files into smaller components.In a large, complex markup file composed of several logical pieces, there's an advantage to working with each piece isolated into a partial view. The code in the markup file is manageable because the markup only contains the overall page structure and references to partial views.Reduce the duplication of common markup content across markup files.When the same markup elements are used across markup files, a partial view removes the duplication of markup content into one partial view file. When the markup is changed in the partial view, it updates the rendered output of the markup files that use the partial view.Partial views shouldn't be used to maintain common layout elements. Common layout elements should be specified in _Layout.cshtml files.Don't use a partial view where complex rendering logic or code execution is required to render the markup. Instead of a partial view, use a view component. Declare partial viewsA partial view is a .cshtml markup file maintained within the Views folder (MVC) or Pages folder (Razor Pages).In ASP.NET Core MVC, a controller's ViewResult is capable of returning either a view or a partial view. In Razor Pages, a PageModel can return a partial view represented as a PartialViewResult object. Referencing and rendering partial views is described in the Reference a partial view section.Unlike MVC view or page rendering, a partial view doesn't run _ViewStart.cshtml. For more information on _ViewStart.cshtml, see Layout in ASP.NET Core.Partial view file names often begin with an underscore (_). This naming convention isn't required, but it helps to visually differentiate partial views from views and pages. Use a partial view in a Razor Pages PageModelIn ASP.NET Core 2.0 or 2.1, the following handler method renders the _AuthorPartialRP.cshtml partial view to the response  In the Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern, the view handles the app's data presentation and user interaction. A view is an HTML template with embedded Razor markup. Razor markup is code that interacts with HTML markup to produce a webpage that's sent to the client.In ASP.NET Core MVC, views are .cshtml files that use the C# programming language in Razor markup. Usually, view files are grouped into folders named for each of the app's controllers. The folders are stored in a Views folder at the root of the app    Use a partial view in a markup fileWithin a markup file, there are several ways to reference a partial view. We recommend that apps use one of the following asynchronous rendering approaches:Partial Tag HelperAsynchronous HTML HelperPartial Tag HelperThe Partial Tag Helper requires ASP.NET Core 2.1 or later.The Partial Tag Helper renders content asynchronously and uses an HTML-like syntax:<partial name="_PartialName" /> Benefits of using viewsViews help to establish separation of concerns within an MVC app by separating the user interface markup from other parts of the app. Following SoC design makes your app modular, which provides several benefits:The app is easier to maintain because it's better organized. Views are generally grouped by app feature. This makes it easier to find related views when working on a feature.The parts of the app are loosely coupled. You can build and update the app's views separately from the business logic and data access components. You can modify the views of the app without necessarily having to update other parts of the app.It's easier to test the user interface parts of the app because the views are separate units.Due to better organization, it's less likely that you'll accidentally repeat sections of the user interface. What are Tag HelpersTag Helpers enable server-side code to participate in creating and rendering HTML elements in Razor files. For example, the built-in ImageTagHelper can append a version number to the image name. Whenever the image changes, the server generates a new unique version for the image, so clients are guaranteed to get the current image (instead of a stale cached image). There are many built-in Tag Helpers for common tasks - such as creating forms, links, loading assets and more - and even more available in public GitHub repositories and as NuGet packages. Tag Helpers are authored in C#, and they target HTML elements based on element name, attribute name, or parent tag. For example, the built-in LabelTagHelper can target the HTML <label> element when the LabelTagHelper attributes are applied. If you're familiar with HTML Helpers, Tag Helpers reduce the explicit transitions between HTML and C# in Razor views. In many cases, HTML Helpers provide an alternative approach to a specific Tag Helper, but it's important to recognize that Tag Helpers don't replace HTML Helpers and there's not a Tag Helper for each HTML Helper. Tag Helpers compared to HTML Helpers explains the differences in more detail.  This document demonstrates working with Forms and the HTML elements commonly used on a Form. The HTML Form element provides the primary mechanism web apps use to post back data to the server. Most of this document describes Tag Helpers and how they can help you productively create robust HTML forms. We recommend you read Introduction to Tag Helpers before you read this document.In many cases, HTML Helpers provide an alternative approach to a specific Tag Helper, but it's important to recognize that Tag Helpers don't replace HTML Helpers and there's not a Tag Helper for each HTML Helper. When an HTML Helper alternative exists, it's mentioned.The Form Tag HelperThe Form Tag Helper:Generates the HTML <FORM> action attribute value for a MVC controller action or named routeGenerates a hidden Request Verification Token to prevent cross-site request forgery (when used with the [ValidateAntiForgeryToken] attribute in the HTTP Post action method)Provides the asp-route-<Parameter Name> attribute, where <Parameter Name> is added to the route values. The routeValues parameters to Html.BeginForm and Html.BeginRouteForm provide similar functionality.Has an HTML Helper alternative Html.BeginForm and Html.BeginRouteForm